was an ardent fan of Mr Robot. I was more than pleasantly surprised with season 1, I loved season 2's dives into surrealism though felt like the show suffered from Esmail taking on too much creative control, and though Season 3 was uneven I generally enjoyed how it turned out. I was planning to do a weekly review of Mr Robot as a way of doing a form of writing other than thesis stuff.

I have put that on hold because the opening 6 minutes of this episode are just too hard to take unless it turns out to be another one of Esmail's feints.
**SPOILERS FOLLOW**
Angela's dialogue with her estranged father continues where it left off from in the Season 3 finale. Angela chooses to take a stand, preferring to die in opposition to those who conned her into the terrorist attack for which she felt so much guilt and pain. Her death left me cold and crestfallen and the rest of the episode felt like a pale shadow of its former self.

Angela's arc end here because Esmail (and his team? Maybe?) felt it would be pulling narrative punches to entertain that Whiterose would simply let Angela live knowing all that she knew, and that this is where Angela's story ends.

If that truly is the case then this scene will have to be taken together with the scene of Season 3, where Irving expounds to Elliot that fsocieties revolution only happened because the same waferthing segment of society rich enough to continue partying on rooftops through an economic crises permitted them to. I am now pessimistic that this show, which once seemed to be doing contemporary commentary quite well, really has nothing to say consistent with the revolutionary ambition it began with. However there is a way of looking at that in which that inability to say something new is still very much in step with our contemporary moment. And depending on how that plays out it could make Mr Robot a very negative text for our current times.

Angela was one of the four milennial protagonists of the show. She played the hands she was dealt well, and aspired to prove herself to her more leet friends. She had a deep emotional vulnerability which was exploited by the shadowy power plays of Whiterose, converting Angela into a true believer willing to go to great lengths, to compromise parts of her character, to realise her hopes. I never felt like Angela ever lost sympathy throughout this. When we last saw her in the preceding season she requested retribution and was advised by her heretofore absent father to “learn to live with what she'd done”.

That this is the protagonist killed in the opening moments of Season 4 is a choice that makes me very reluctant to continue watching the show week to week. At this exact moment I am not feeling a show that makes that choice. The idea of death after being duped by the false promises and fantasy that only those actors with sufficient resources required to conjure a sufficiently mystifying spectacle is just too close to the bone for the reality which is slowly dawning on us through the magnitude of climate change.

If that's what this season wants to go for as its story then I think that could be something worth saying, something that could be respected on its own merits. However if Mr Robot tends towards a more conventional narrative conclusion, and that is the way that Season 3 felt like it was tending, then this choice to kill Angela will hurt it.

Mr Robot's first seasons ending was exhilirating because of the final episode's jumpcut to Elliot's caper being pulled off. However enjoyable I have found the show since I think its fair to say that it has been trapped in the pit we are all in – being unable to see outside of Capitalist Realism and imagine alternative. It is extremely hard for each of us as individuals to see past or imagine what comes after capitalism.

There's a chance this turns out to be a feint in the spirits of Season 1 and Season 2's “twists”. I think misdirection is a better term for what Esmail was attempting in each instance. I'm holding out hope for that given the amount of time that was granted to write this final season. There was a lot of this episode which felt like Mr Robot knowingly imitating what made Mr Robot distinctive, drawing attention to the artfice of narrative. Or maybe I'm in denial about how good it ever was to begin with.
